All right.
In this video we're going to talk about and look at meta tags, which are tags or snippets that describe
a page's content and they don't appear in the body of the Web page anywhere.
Nobody sees them.
It just describes some stuff about the page.
So we're going to look at some of the popular ones, including the ones that are used in search engines.
So let's create a new file.
We'll call it zero three, underscore meta, underscore tags, dot HTML.
And I'm going to generate my content with Emmett.
So I'm going to use exclamation tab or enter and notice that it adds three meta tags.
It also adds a laying attribute which you don't need in your HTML tag, but it just describes the language
as English, and these are all attributes.
So tags have attributes.
We're going to be using them along the way and they describe basically their properties of the tag.
So all of these are meta, right?
So the only difference is the different attributes.
That's how we can tell what what each one is.
So the first one here is char set, which is the character set, and this specifies the character encoding
of the page.
So UTF eight is actually the default, it's the character encoding for Unicode.
It's not extremely important to understand how this works or what it is.
It's we could actually remove this and it would still be UTF eight.
And the Unicode standard covers almost all characters punctuation, punctuation, symbols, things like
that.
So that's what that is.
It's the character set that this page uses.
The next one here is pretty important for responsive design.
This is the viewport tag and responsive design it.
It's all about making your your website or your user interface responsive to different screen sizes.
So you want your website to look good on a desktop, a laptop, smartphone, a tablet, and there's
different strategies mostly to do with CSS on making your site look good on these devices.
But one of the things you want to do is add this viewport tag and you want to set the content value.
You want to set a couple of things in the content, which is, one, the width you want to set it to
whatever the width of the device and the scale should be set to 1.0.
So if you've ever gone on a non responsive site on a smartphone and you had to drag your finger over
to kind of see the rest of the site that probably doesn't have the viewport set.
So you want it to actually show the entire website or the entire interface.
So that's what the viewport tag does.
It's actually really important.
So this next one has to do with browser compatibility.
This http equiv, you can see the content equals i.e. equals edge.
So IY is referring to the old internet explorer browser which is not used very much at all anymore.
Windows now ships with edge.
So we're basically saying we want to use the edge standards.
And Microsoft browsers have been just a nightmare since since the beginning of Web development.
Back when I started, it was Internet Explorer six, which never rendered things correctly.
You always had to do little hacks here and there and your CSS and your JavaScript to get things to work.
So even now, Ie11, which is the latest version, is still very clunky, but not too many people use
it.
I think if I look at my analytics on my website, it's like 0.3% or something ridiculous like that.
So it's not it's extremely important to support those browsers anymore unless you're building a website
that may have like a lot of elderly people as viewers because a lot of them have older computers that
they haven't updated.
That's still run.
IEEE All right, so now what I want to look at is meta tags that have to do with search engines.
So we're going to talk a little bit about search engines and the title is actually really important.
I'm just going to put meta tags here, but you're in your title.
You want to have you want to put something that really describes the page.
You also want to put keywords that you want to rank for.
Well, in the search engines now, SEO, which is search engine optimization, has changed dramatically
from years ago.
Like there's certain things that used to be really important are not anymore.
And I'm not an SEO expert, so I'm not going to speak too much on that.
But the title is What Shows In the Search Engine.
So if we jump into Chrome here and let's open up a new tab, and by the way, this time that you see
here in the background, this is a chrome a Google Chrome extension called moment, if you're interested.
I know a lot of people will ask me about it.
So I figured I just tell you guys it has to dos and stuff like that.
It's pretty cool.
But let's go ahead and go to Google.com and let's search for like, let's say, Miami Web design.
And when we look at these websites that show up, this large text here, this is the title.
Whatever you have in the title for the page is going to show up here most of the time.
If it doesn't match the page's content, Google might take it upon itself to put something in here.
But usually it's going to be your title.
And then this text here, the smaller text is actually the description meta tag, which I'll show you
in a second.
But if we go to this site and which I'm not affiliated at all with, and if we go ahead and view the
source code with command option you or control you on a Windows machine, and we look at the title,
you'll see it's Miami website, design company, digital agency and then the name of the company.
So that's a good choice for a title.
It has some keywords in there.
It also has the company name and you can see if I hover over the title.
That's exactly it should should pop up here.
I'll usually does.
I'm not sure why it's not popping up, but usually it'll pop up and show you the whole title.
Here we go.
And you can see that it matches what is in the HTML.
And then if we look at the meta description tag, which is, let's see, where is it?
Uh, here's the viewport.
Let's search for it.
So if we do a control f in search for description.
Here it is.
So meta name equals description and then the content you'll see this is exactly what is showing up in
the search engine.
So Fuze is a full service Miami website design company.
If we go back to the the results here, Fuse is a full service Miami website design company.
So this is going to be your description, this is your title.
So let's go ahead and add in a description.
So we're going to say meta and we want to use the name,
description and content.
You'd say, whatever, I'm just going to put this is my website description, but you would want to
put something that's that's specifies what's on the page.
You also want to put some keywords in here.
I don't think the description holds too much weight, but it is what what the user sees when they search
for your site.
So that's pretty important.
And another search engine related tag is the keywords meta tag.
Now this keyword is tag used to hold a lot of weight like years and years ago.
But now it's not it doesn't really matter.
It's just for describing the page's content.
So it's not like it's going to make or break your site in the search engine, but generally you want
to keep between like eight and 12 words.
So let's say this was a Web Web development company we put like Web development, maybe web design,
maybe your company name or something like that.
So you generally want to have around eight or so of these keywords.
All right.
So let's see, the last one that I want to show you is, is if you don't want your site to rank in search
engines, if you don't want it to show up at all, you would use the robots meta tag.
So let's say meta name equals robots.
And for the content, you would want to put no index so that it doesn't index your site in the search
engine and then no follow so it doesn't follow any links on the page and indexed those.
All right.
So for some reason you don't want your site to show up in Google and Bing and all the other engines.
You would just put this in here and I'll just put a comment.
Do not index or page.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
I'm going to go ahead and save that.
I'm not going to go over any of the other ones right now because they're really not that important.
If you want to look, look, look up some of the other ones on your own, you can do that.
But I don't want to throw too much stuff at you that you don't really need right now.
So that's it, guys.
In the next video, we're going to start to look at typography, look at creating headings and paragraphs
and bolded text and stuff like that.